packages/studio/pages/docs/guides/cron.mdx, before:

import { serverActions } from '@appsemble/utils';

# Cron Jobs

Appsemble provides a way to run [actions](../reference/action.mdx) based on a schedule through cron
jobs.

They are especially useful for reoccurring actions like e.g. sending emails to notify your users
about upcoming events.

## Table of Contents

- [Schedule](#schedule)
- [Action](#action)
- [Example](#example)

## Schedule

The format for the schedule is based on the `cron` format, to see this in action head over to
[Crontab guru](https://crontab.guru/).

**Cron format**

```
*    *    *    *    *    *
┬    ┬    ┬    ┬    ┬    ┬
│    │    │    │    │    |
│    │    │    │    │    └ day of week  (0 - 7) (both 0 and 7 will have it run on Sunday)
│    │    │    │    └───── month        (1 - 12)
│    │    │    └────────── day of month (1 - 31)
│    │    └─────────────── hour         (0 - 23)
│    └──────────────────── minute       (0 - 59)
└───────────────────────── second       (0 - 59, optional)
```

_Extra options:_

- **(day of week)`L`**: the last occurrence of the specified week day for the month in progress.
- **(day of month)`L`**: last day of the month.

> Note: the current implementation of cron jobs runs jobs from the past five minutes every five
> minutes. This means that running the job at e.g. 14:01 will not run it at 14:01, but at about
> 14:05. It’s recommended to specify a cron job to run more than 5 minutes before it’s supposed to
> finish to be certain that a job is scheduled on time. Let’s say you want the job to finish before
> 14:00, then it’s recommended to be scheduled between `51 13 * * *` and `54 13 * * *` as other jobs
> may run first.

## Actions

Cron jobs can be specified with only certain actions that we support on the server, they may still
be used in older apps, but will run a `noop` action instead. The actions also work a little
different e.g. the actions are not run by the user, so retrieving user information with the
[user](../remappers/data.mdx#user) remapper won’t work the same.

> Note: We do not recommend using resource actions with resources that have properties in binary
> format, as assets are currently unsupported.

Supported (server-side) actions:

<ul>
  {Array.from(serverActions).map((action) => (
    <li key={action}>
      <a href={`/docs/reference/action#${action}`}>{action}</a>
    </li>
  ))}
</ul>

## Example

Cron jobs are defined at the top level of the app definition with the
[cron](../reference/app.mdx#-app-definition-cron) property.

```yaml copy validate cron-snippet
cron:
  everyDayAt10:
    schedule: '* 10 * * *' # Quotes are required if the first character starts with `*`
    action:
      type: resource.query
      resource: person
```

Commit message:

Add docs for security definition for cronjobs

packages/studio/pages/docs/guides/cron.mdx, after:

import { serverActions } from '@appsemble/utils';

# Cron Jobs

Appsemble provides a way to run [actions](../reference/action.mdx) based on a schedule through cron
jobs.

They are especially useful for reoccurring actions like e.g. sending emails to notify your users
about upcoming events.

## Table of Contents

- [Schedule](#schedule)
- [Action](#action)
- [Security](#security)
- [Example](#example)

## Schedule

The format for the schedule is based on the `cron` format, to see this in action head over to
[Crontab guru](https://crontab.guru/).

**Cron format**

```
*    *    *    *    *    *
┬    ┬    ┬    ┬    ┬    ┬
│    │    │    │    │    |
│    │    │    │    │    └ day of week  (0 - 7) (both 0 and 7 will have it run on Sunday)
│    │    │    │    └───── month        (1 - 12)
│    │    │    └────────── day of month (1 - 31)
│    │    └─────────────── hour         (0 - 23)
│    └──────────────────── minute       (0 - 59)
└───────────────────────── second       (0 - 59, optional)
```

_Extra options:_

- **(day of week)`L`**: the last occurrence of the specified week day for the month in progress.
- **(day of month)`L`**: last day of the month.

> Note: the current implementation of cron jobs runs jobs from the past five minutes every five
> minutes. This means that running the job at e.g. 14:01 will not run it at 14:01, but at about
> 14:05. It’s recommended to specify a cron job to run more than 5 minutes before it’s supposed to
> finish to be certain that a job is scheduled on time. Let’s say you want the job to finish before
> 14:00, then it’s recommended to be scheduled between `51 13 * * *` and `54 13 * * *` as other jobs
> may run first.

## Actions

Cron jobs can be specified with only certain actions that we support on the server, they may still
be used in older apps, but will run a `noop` action instead. The actions also work a little
different e.g. the actions are not run by the user, so retrieving user information with the
[user](../remappers/data.mdx#user) remapper won’t work the same.

> Note: We do not recommend using resource actions with resources that have properties in binary
> format, as assets are currently unsupported.

Supported (server-side) actions:

<ul>
  {Array.from(serverActions).map((action) => (
    <li key={action}>
      <a href={`/docs/reference/action#${action}`}>{action}</a>
    </li>
  ))}
</ul>

## Security

Cron jobs that contain resource or member actions need security permissions. In the security
definition add the appropriate permissions under the cron property.

```yaml security definition cron
security:
  cron:
    permissions:
      - $ resource:all:query
```

## Example

Cron jobs are defined at the top level of the app definition with the
[cron](../reference/app.mdx#-app-definition-cron) property.

```yaml copy validate cron-snippet
cron:
  everyDayAt10:
    schedule: '* 10 * * *' # Quotes are required if the first character starts with `*`
    action:
      type: resource.query
      resource: person
```
